1  a good day for planting, though tubers may be small like the moon (Handy and Handy); low tide till morning so women fished by hand and men went torch fishing; first day of kapu to the god Ku; "a day of death to man as a sacrifice to others"; the "wrongdoer would be put to death"; the kapu lasted till Kukahi or Kulua.
2  good day for planting; low tide till morning; kapu to the god Ku
3  moon seen in the western sky at sunset; the Ku days are recommended for planting sweet potato, taro, and banana, which will grow upright (ku) (Handy and Handy)".
4  end of the days kapu to Ku; a day of low tide, so people went down to the shore to fish.
5  not good for planting sweet potatoes, bananas, gourds, as "they would just shoot up like coconut [trees]"; good fishing day (Kepelino).
6  end of the Ku days.
7  "the farmer does not plant on this day" (Kepelino); "'Ole" means "nothing," so planting and fishing may be not productive in the three "'ole" days [7-9 on the lunar calendar] (Handy and Handy).
8  "farmers generally dislike it for planting"; "a good night for torching fishing" (Kepelino).
9  "the farmer thinks little of this day"; "a good night for torch-fishing" (Kepelino).
10  "it is a productive day, say the cultivators" (Kepelino). "Pau" means "end" so non-productivity is at an end (Handy and Handy).
11  "a productive day for cultivators"; "there is good fishing" (Kepelino).
12  "a good day for farmers"; "on this night begins the kapu of the gods in the heiau and everyone goes to pray inside the heiau" (Kepelino). Handy and Handy say that it "sacred Kane,the life-giver"; good for fishing.
13  "In the old days it was a day of prayer, but in these new days the farmers like to plant on this day anything that bears fruit" (Kepelino); Handy and Handy say it was "sacred to Lono"; "good fishing."
14  "a great moon, beautiful and well-rounded" (Kepelino). "All things reproduce abundantly (ho'oakua)"; "kapu to the gods"; offerings made to increase growth of plants and fish (Handy and Handy).
15  "a day well liked by farmers" (Kepelino); "good fishing" (Handy and Handy).
16  "a day well liked by farmers" (Kepelino); "fishing is good"; "good for all work" (Handy and Handy).
17  "the farmers put their trust in this day. The potato or the melon will swell large" (Kepelino). "Good time for fishing" (Handy and Handy).
18  "a day rejected by the cultivator. The potato vine, melons, bananas, gourds, if planted on that day become woody (ho'ola'au) and do not form fruit" (Kepelino). Good for gathering and preparing herbs (la'au); "favorable for fishing" (Handy and Handy).
19  "a day much esteemed by the farmer" (Kepelino).
20  "day for planting" (Kepelino).
21  "These are the days for planting potato slips, banana suckers, and gourd seed. A day of rough seas so that it is said, "nothing ['ole] is to be had from t he sea" (Kepelino).
22  "a good day for planting" (Kepelino). Handy and Handy say that all the 'ole days are not good for either planting or fishing.
23  On this day begins another kapu, this one for the god Kanaloa [Kalo] (Handy and Handy).
24  "a planting day, but the potato vine, melon, or banana will run to stem and the fruit will not develop quickly" (Kepelino). The second day of kapu and prayers to Kanaloa [Kalo] (Handy and Handy).
25  "a good day for planting crops"; the kapu that began on 'Olekupau ends (Kepelino). The "loa" days (24-26) are good for plants with long stems, long vines, long leaves, such as bamboo, banana, sugar cane, potato and yam, wauke, and hala (pandanus) (Handy and Handy).
26  The "loa"-days end.
27  "a day of prayer to the god Kane." (Kepelino). Night marchers, or ancestral spirits, walked on this night. After the ancient religion was abandoned, "a good day for planting potato"; "good for men who fish with lines and for girls who dive for sea-urchins" (Handy and Handy, Kepelino).
28  a day dedicated to Kane and "a day for thanking the god Lono for the whole month past" (Kepelino). "Prayers for rain" (Handy and Handy; Lono was a god of agriculture and rain). After the ancient religion was abandoned, "a day for planting crops. The potato, melon, pumpkin, coffee, orange and all such things will blossom abundantly" (Kepelino).
29  "a very good day for planting" (Kepelino). "Fishing is good" (Handy and Handy).
30  "a day for planting crops, a day of low tide...a day of diving for sea-urchins, small and large, for gathering seaweed, for line-fishing by children, squid-catching uluulu fishing, pulu fishing, and so forth" (Kepelino)
